Welcome! Welcome! Welcome! In this video we are going to be looking at how we can play
with buttons! So something like this where we can click it, we can play, blah
blah blah, the game is over, and I can play again!
How exciting, I can play as many times as I like, even though the
game can't actually be over yet! OK, let's dive right in!
So ideally we wouldn't be hitting space here but rather
clicking a button, and this is certainly the case in our game over screen, where
hitting space doesn't actually do anything, because
we don't even have the LevelManger. But if we had the LevelManager in this scene,
then hitting space would simply progress forward,
and we don't want to progress forward we want to go back. So how do
we deal with these cases? How do we make the level of control, the
key that is being hit, slightly different to whether we go forward or
back. Well what we're going to do is introduce a new
concept, a new UI concept, called a button. So let's right-
click on the Canvas, go to UI, and select the Button
object. OK now I'm going to rename this button to
something a little bit more meaningful, like PlayButton,
and I'm going to position it in the right place. I'm actually going to
keep this text around, to use it as a
subtitle, to the SHOOT HOOP. I'm just going
to change it to
"RACE THE CLOCK." Like that!
And I'm going to put my button, probably around
down here. OK. Now, we want
to change its size a little bit and make it a little bit bigger,
and what we also want to do is, underneath, if you
expand the PlayButton, you'll notice there is a child object, which is the Text.
So we want to apply the consistent font to that Text. So
I'm going to select the Text, drag the font into its field,
and I actually want the background for this
thing to be white, but I do want
the text to be different color. To make it clear that this is an action item, we're going to make the
text red, and we're going to make the text big, and we're going to make the text say
PLAY, so it's very clear what exactly
this does. OK, now if we
hit play, let's see what this button looks like. So I mouse over,
it goes slightly gray. That's a bit too subtle for my liking, I think
we'll want to make it go a lot more gray than that. So Highlight
Color is what we're looking for, under the Button (Script), so select
that, bring it down to a much darker gray like
that, hit play,
and as you mouse over now it's much more obvious that we're about to do
something clicking. It just makes it a lighter gray again, so let's make
the Pressed Color be
a light red of sorts, like that.
So now, it should be really obvious. Mouse over,
PLAY, very very obvious. OK, I'm much more happy
with that, in terms of a way of controlling! But how do
we actually hook this button up? With buttons it's very
easy! You'll notice that, in the Inspector, we have this On Click () section.
If you hit the + button, then what we need is an object and a
function. So we need to drag in an object, and luckily we already have a Level
Manager, so I'm going to drag in the LevelManager. And then, the function we want
is under the LevelManager component, so you have to go to that, and then, we want
to load the next level. But that's not showing up in our list, now I wonder why?
Le's go over to the code and just check! Ah,
so you'll notice here that it's not a public function, so it can't be called by other
scripts, and that's what we're seeing, that it isn't showing up. So if we
put public in front of our method, it should make it accessible
to that button. So I select the button,
go to Function, LevelManager, and now we have
LoadNextScene (). Perfect! I'm going to hit save,
and go to play, and now if I hit
PLAY, I get the scene! And if I hit Space I
get the game over scene, but I cannot go any
further than this,
so hopefully this is what you're going to fix in this challenge! I'd like you to add a
Play Again Button! Now, use your old knowledge that you have
so far, from this lecture, to achieve that with buttons, and
I would like you to also bring in the LevelManager script into the
scene. It's needed in order for us to manage levels.
And then, you'll need a LoadPrevious
Level() on that LevelManager script, so we'll add in this extra
method to go back a level. Because remember, the game over screen
is the last thing in the build order, so we need to go back
if we want to play again. And then, add your button, add your play again
button, do all the text styling, etc. You could probably copy it over from the first screen,
in fact, and hook it all up. OK, so pause the video and have a go!
OK welcome back!
I'm going to dive right in and have a go at this! So the
first thing I'm going to do is copy over my button. So I'm going to
take this PlayButton and copy it and go into the game
over and paste it onto the Canvas. So I'm going to expand the Canvas, Paste,
and hope that it'll go underneath, but it doesn't, so I have to drag it into the Canvas.
And I'm going to put my PLAY AGAIN at the bottom.
This time we're going to remove the instructions, because I don't really have a
subtitle [Laughs] for GAME OVER! I'll put the PLAY down here. I'm going to
rename it or rename the text anyway, change the text to
let's see, Play AGAIN question
mark. And I'll make the button big enough to fit
that all in, I need to go into the button to do that.
Make it larger, center it again.
Alright, and let's just preview this scene!
Now obviously, when I click nothing is happening,
which is obvious, but
you'll notice that there is an On Click () handler that is empty,
in Inspector, so that's what got copied over. This is
why we need to Create our Empty GameObject, call it LevelManager.
And we go into our
Scripts folder, and bring the
LevelManager into the game. OK.
I'm going to hit save, and I don't really need
play to know what's going to happen. So I'll go do the button and
try and pull the LevelManager on. Obviously we don't have any
function that we want, at the moment, and need the LoadNextLevel. So we need to write that,
and I'm going to write it, pretty much, by copying the LoadNext levels.
So I'm going to copy it over, call it Load
PreviousScene(). So
I lied a little bit about the name, I'm calling it PreviousScene,
and then, we just want to do a -1 instead of a +1. Very very simple.
Very very simple. So, in fact, I don't want this Key
Down. Actually, I do want the KeyDown, because this KeyDown is what allows us
to move on during the game, until we have a game over condition.
And I'm going to go over to Unity!
I do believe I accidentally started up another Unity, but it seems to be fine with that.
Let's hit play and see if we can go back!
OK now we can't, because I haven't connected up, so we go to the PlayButton,
go down to select the function LevelManager,
and LoadPreviousScene (). Now that should do the trick! Let's hit play
and finally see whether this works or not! Yes it does!
So now, I've just gone back a scene, I hit space, I go forward, back,
and forward. You know, I can just get stuck in this loop forever,
basically. So success, we managed to connect
up both of these buttons to do what we wanted with the LevelManager.
So well done! Pat yourself on the back, and then, move on
to the next video!